KIC Get Started (#1068)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/kic-get-started-proxy-caching.md

## Proxy Cache headers
The `proxy-cache` plugin returns a `X-Cache-Status` header that can contain the following cache results:

{% include_cached /plugins/caching/cache-header.md %}

## Create a proxy-cache KongClusterPlugin

In the previous section you created a `KongPlugin` that was applied to a specific service or route. You can also use a `KongClusterPlugin` which is a global plugin that applies to all services.

This configuration caches all `HTTP 200` responses to `GET` and `HEAD` requests for 300 seconds:

{% entity_example %}
type: plugin
data:
  name: proxy-cache-all-endpoints
  plugin: proxy-cache
  config:
    response_code:
    - 200
    request_method:
    - GET
    - HEAD
    content_type:
    - text/plain; charset=utf-8
    cache_ttl: 300
    strategy: memory
{% endentity_example %}

## Test the proxy-cache plugin

To test the proxy-cache plugin, send another six requests to `$PROXY_IP/echo`:

{% validation rate-limit-check %}
iterations: 6
url: '/echo'
headers:
  - 'apikey:example-key'
on_prem_url: $PROXY_IP
konnect_url: $PROXY_IP
grep: "(Status|< HTTP)"
message: null
output:
  explanation: |

>     The first request results in `X-Cache-Status: Miss`. This means that the request is sent to the upstream service. The next four responses return `X-Cache-Status: Hit` which indicates that the request was served from a cache.

Reviewer: It's very easy to do this part of the guide too quickly after the Rate Limiting portion and get rate limited, so you don't see any proxy caching info.

Author: I hit this too, but wondered if it was just that we're flying through when testing.

Would you add a note here saying to wait 60s?

Reviewer: You could also decrease the rate limiting window to something like 30 seconds. Doesn't hurt to add a note just in case.

Author: Decreasing the rate limiting window makes a lot more sense. Given we use a loop, 10 seconds should be enough

Author: Ah, we'd have to use RLA to have that level of granularity. We can do per second or per minute in RL

---
title: Proxy Caching
description: |
  Cache all GET and HEAD responses across all Services using Proxy Cache and the KongClusterPlugin resource
content_type: how_to

permalink: /kubernetes-ingress-controller/get-started/proxy-caching/
breadcrumbs:
  - /kubernetes-ingress-controller/
  - index: kubernetes-ingress-controller
    section: Get Started

series:
  id: kic-get-started
  position: 4

tldr:
  q: How do I cache upstream responses using {{ site.kic_product_name }}?
  a: |
    Use the `proxy-cache` plugin by creating a `KongPlugin` resource while specifying `config.response_code`, `config.request_method` and `config.cache_ttl`.

products:
  - kic

tools:
  - kic

works_on:
  - on-prem
  - konnect

prereqs:
  skip_product: true
---

> ## The Proxy Cache Plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About the Proxy Cache plugin
```
For consistency

> One of the ways Kong delivers performance is through caching. The [Proxy Cache plugin](/hub/kong-inc/proxy-cache/) accelerates performance by caching responses based on configurable response codes, content types, and request methods.  When caching is enabled, upstream services are not impacted by repetitive requests, because {{site.base_gateway}} responds on their behalf with cached results. Caching can be enabled on specific routes for all requests globally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the ways {{site.base_gateway}} delivers performance is through caching. The [Proxy Cache plugin](/plugins/proxy-cache/) accelerates performance by caching responses based on configurable response codes, content types, and request methods. When caching is enabled, upstream services are not impacted by repetitive requests, because {{site.base_gateway}} responds on their behalf with cached results. Caching can be enabled on specific Routes or for all requests globally.
```

> ## Proxy Cache Headers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Proxy Cache headers
```

The `proxy-cache` plugin returns a `X-Cache-Status` header that can contain the following cache results:

> {% table %}
> columns:
>   - title: State
>     key: state
>   - title: Description
>     key: desc
> rows:
>   - state: Miss
>     desc: |
>       The request could be satisfied in cache, but an entry for the resource was not found in cache, and the request was proxied upstream.
>   - state: Hit
>     desc: |
>       The request was satisfied and served from the cache.
>   - state: Refresh
>     desc: |
>       The resource was found in cache, but could not satisfy the request, due to Cache-Control behaviors or reaching its hard-coded `cache_ttl` threshold.
>   - state: Bypass
>     desc: |
>       The request could not be satisfied from cache based on plugin configuration
> {% endtable %}

Reviewer: You should use the include here, and just turn the contents of that include into a table:

```suggestion
{% include_cached /plugins/caching/cache-header.md %}
```

## Create a proxy-cache KongClusterPlugin

In the previous section you created a `KongPlugin` that was applied to a specific service or route. You can also use a `KongClusterPlugin` which is a global plugin that applies to all services.

This configuration caches all `HTTP 200` responses to `GET` and `HEAD` requests for 300 seconds:

{% entity_example %}
type: plugin
data:
  name: proxy-cache-all-endpoints

>   plugin: rate-limiting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  plugin: proxy-cache
```

  config:
    response_code:
    - 200
    request_method:
    - GET
    - HEAD
    content_type:
    - text/plain; charset=utf-8
    cache_ttl: 300
    strategy: memory
{% endentity_example %}

## Test the proxy-cache plugin

To test the proxy-cache plugin, send another six requests to `$PROXY_IP/echo`:

{% validation rate-limit-check %}
iterations: 6
url: '/echo'
headers:
  - 'apikey:example-key'
on_prem_url: $PROXY_IP
konnect_url: $PROXY_IP
grep: "(Status|< HTTP)"
message: null
output:
  explanation: |
    The first request results in `X-Cache-Status: Miss`. This means that the request is sent to the upstream service. The next four responses return `X-Cache-Status: Hit` which indicates that the request was served from a cache.
  expected:
    - value:
      - "< HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
      - "< X-Cache-Status: Hit"
    - value:
      - "< HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
      - "< X-Cache-Status: Hit"
    - value:
      - "< HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
      - "< X-Cache-Status: Hit"
    - value:
      - "< HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
      - "< X-Cache-Status: Hit"
    - value:
      - "< HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
      - "< X-Cache-Status: Hit"
    - value:
      - "< HTTP/1.1 429 Too Many Requests"
{% endvalidation %}

> The final thing to note is that when a `HTTP 429` request is returned by the rate-limit plugin, you do not see a `X-Cache-Status` header. This is because `rate-limiting` executes before `proxy-cache`. For more information, see [plugin priority](/gateway/entities/plugin/#plugin-priority).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final thing to note is that when a `HTTP 429` request is returned by the rate-limit plugin, you don't see a `X-Cache-Status` header. This is because `rate-limiting` executes before `proxy-cache`. For more information, see [plugin priority](/gateway/entities/plugin/#plugin-priority).
```
